feat(gateway): Brute force protection for 3.13 (#3474)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/protect-against-brute-force-attacks.md

tools:
    - deck

prereqs:
  entities:
    services:
        - example-service
    routes:
        - example-route

cleanup:
  inline:
    - title: Clean up Konnect environment
      include_content: cleanup/platform/konnect
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
    - title: Destroy the {{site.base_gateway}} container
      include_content: cleanup/products/gateway
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
---

## Create a Consumer

[Consumers](/gateway/entities/consumer/) let you identify the client that's interacting with {{site.base_gateway}}.
We're going to use basic [authentication](/gateway/authentication/) in this tutorial, so the Consumer needs a username and password to access any {{site.base_gateway}} Services.

Create a Consumer:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  consumers:
    - username: jsmith
      basicauth_credentials:
       - username: jsmith
         password: my-password
{% endentity_examples %}

## Enable authentication

> Authentication lets you identify a Consumer. In this how-to, we'll be using the [Basic Authentication plugin](/plugins/basic-auth/) for authentication with brute force protection enabled. This allows users to authenticate with a username and password when they make a request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [Basic Authentication plugin](/plugins/basic-auth/) to identify Consumers with username-and-password credentials, including optional brute-force protection.
```
